So if you're making say
a server with node and express,
there's the concept of middleware a lot,
at least which is used.
And that you could just deploy on Heroku,
right, cuz that's running node.
But for this idea of middleware,
we're talking about edge,
which I'm assuming it will deployed in
a very specific way if it's in production.
So is there limited options for
deploying in next js applications?
>> So very good question.
Yeah, so next js is created by
the people who make Vercel,
which is their own hosting provider.
They have their own architecture.
So yeah, I think that's their play, right,
is to create all these awesome tools that
integrate with their framework, that
their platform supports out of the box.
But they've also done a really good job of
making sure that that architecture works
outside their platform, too.
So I haven't investigated how you
might go about getting their edge
functions to work outside of Vercel.
But I would imagine, one,
it would require you to deploy to a place
that even had it in the first place.
Heroku doesn't have it.
Even though they use AWS, which does
have it, Heroku just hasn't done it yet.
I know they're in talks of doing x
functions and lambda functions, but
they just haven't done it yet.
So you probably couldn't do it there.
But I would pretty sure that if
you deploy this to AWS yourself,
you should have access to it.
Because I know if you deploy just
a regular next js without the middleware,
you have access to the edge functions
that next js has in AWS without going to
Vercel.
So I would imagine you do have that, but
you want just the best compatibility,
just deploy to Vercel and yeah,
they have really good deployment.
So it's not that big of a deal,
but yeah, very great question.
>> If you see that the 404
pages don't redirect,
is there a way to redirect that as well?
>> Yeah, 404 pages don't redirect.
Is there a way to redirect for 404?
There are so many ways to redirect.
It depends on when and
where you wanna redirect.
Do you wanna redirect
before your app runs?
Do you wanna redirect during server time?
Do you wanna redirect during client time?
I just made those two things up.
But yeah, so if you wanna redirect
before your app is executed,
then you would just write
another middleware, right?
You would write another
middleware based off some rules.
Who knows what it is?
Maybe you have an array just like
I have here with all your routes.
And if none of the incoming request
matches those routes, you can redirect
to wherever you want or set the response
to 404, however you wanna do it.
If you wanna redirect on the server, we
haven't gotten into server side functions
yet, inside of the components,
we will soon you can redirect in there.
The third option is you can wait till your
component loads up on the client, and
you can use the use router to
redirect from there as well, yes.
>> Is there any relation of middleware
functions to angular interceptors?
>> That's a really, damn,
some geez, in there, okay.
Angular interceptors, I haven't
heard that in a long time [LAUGH].
Okay, question, yeah,
is there relationship to these
middleware functions to interceptors?
In concept, they're very similar.
They both intercept a request, and
they manipulate that request or they check
something, and they either continue on
to another middleware or they stop.
The only difference is for
the angular interceptors,
those happen during runtime in a
JavaScript context on your browser, right.
So they're intercepting
typically JSON requests.
If you're making an API call, you can
make an interception on the way out and
you can intercept it on the way
coming back from the server.
Whereas this is actually
happening on the network layer.
So this is not happening in the browser
like an angular interceptor would,
this is happening on a CDN somewhere.
So it's already left the browser,
the request is headed to the server.
Before it gets to the server,
it stops on the edge of the CDN
which is whatever is closest to you.
So if you're in San Francisco, then the
closest one might be in Oregon somewhere.
It'll stop there and be like, actually,
I gotta check your token before I send you
over to this server to render
this homepage for you.
Let me see what you got.
So it's a little different because
it happened somewhere else, but
the concept is the same.
And the benefit of that is that because
it's happening on the network layer,
you get the benefit of
still being SEO friendly.
So think about making a middleware on the
network that checks someone's IP address,
looks that up in the table to
see that this is Coca-Cola or
this is some big company.
And then, getting the html document
from the source, changing out some
headers on the page to say,
hi Coca-Cola and then sending it back.
So now Coca-Cola sees a custom page just
for them based off their IP address and
it's still SEO friendly, right.
So you can do that on the edge,
where if you did that on the server,
it wouldn't be SEO friendly.
If you did that on the client,
it obviously would not be SEO friendly, so
different things like that.